README.md, before:

# Kubernetes Jenkins as Code management #

!!! UNDER CONSTRUCTION !!!

This project offers a template for managing Jenkins instances on Kubernetes with a JobDSL and Jenkins Configuration as Code (JcasC).

To simplify the installation and the project settings, it has a small helper tool `k8s-jcasc.sh`, which can be used in wizard mode or via arguments to
* create new projects for Jenkins administration
* manage secrets
    * encrypt/decrypt secrets for secure commit to a VCS (version control system)
    * apply secrets to kubernetes
    * manage secrets globally for easy administration
    * manage secrets per project for more security
* manage the Jenkins instances for a namespace with the project configuration (not ready yet)
    * install
    * uninstall


## How to use ##

The simplest way is to call the `k8s-jcasc.sh` file. Everything else will be asked by the script.

For less selection and more control you can also give some arguments and the command to the script:

```bash
./k8s-jcasc.sh <arguments> <command>
```

The order of the arguments and commands are irrelevant.

### k8s-jcasc.sh arguments ###

It is possible to use multiple arguments.
The following arguments are supported:

| Argument | Description | Example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-p=` or `--projectdir=` | Defines the project directory (or project name) of the Jenkins configuration. This directory is a subdirectory of the configured `PROJECTS_BASE_DIRECTORY` | `-p=myproject` or `--projectdir=myproject` |
| `-n=` or `--namespace=` | Defines the target namespace in Kubernetes. It is not used for encrypting or decrypting secrets. | `-n=jenkins-namespace` or `--namespace=jenkins-namespace` |
| `-d=` or `--deploymentname=` | Defines the deployment name, which is relevant only for `install` and `uninstall`. This can also be configured globally for all projects as `JENKINS_MASTER_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` in the config file. | `-d=jenkins-master` or `--deploymentname=jenkins-master` |

### k8s-jcasc.sh commands ###

Only one command can be used. Multiple commands are *NOT* supported.
The following commands are supported:

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `install` | Install Jenkins to a Kubernetes namespace. |
| `uninstall` | Uninstall the Jenkins instance from a Kubernetes namespace. |
| `encryptsecrets` | Encrypt the secrets (global secrets or project secrets, depending on configuration). |
| `decryptsecrets` | Decrypt the secrets (global secrets or project secrets, depending on configuration). |
| `applysecrets` | Apply the secrets to the Kubernetes namespace (global secrets or project secrets, depending on configuration). |
| `createproject` | Create a new Jenkins project for the configuration and deployment values from the templates. It uses a wizard to ask for relevant data. |


# Helpful links #

- Kubernetes DNS-Based Service Discovery: https://github.com/kubernetes/dns/blob/master/docs/specification.md
- JCasC Examples: https://github.com/jenkinsci/configuration-as-code-plugin/tree/master/demos

Commit message:

* Documentation of the IP management

README.md, after:

# Kubernetes Jenkins as Code management #

!!! UNDER CONSTRUCTION !!!

This project offers a template for managing Jenkins instances on Kubernetes with a JobDSL and Jenkins Configuration as Code (JcasC).

To simplify the installation and the project settings, it has a small helper tool `k8s-jcasc.sh`, which can be used in wizard mode or via arguments to
* create new projects for Jenkins administration
* manage secrets
    * encrypt/decrypt secrets for secure commit to a VCS (version control system)
    * apply secrets to kubernetes
    * manage secrets globally for easy administration
    * manage secrets per project for more security
* manage the Jenkins instances for a namespace with the project configuration (not ready yet)
    * install
    * uninstall

## Configuration ##

The system has a basic configuration file to pre-configure some global settings.
This file is located under [config/k8s_jcasc_mgmt.cnf](config/k8s_jcasc_mgmt.cnf).

It is recommended to change the `PROJECTS_BASE_DIRECTORY` to a directory outside of this project.
The `createproject` command will create new projects as subfolders of this directory.
All files and directories under the `PROJECTS_BASE_DIRECTORY' should be passed to a git repository which is backed up.

Then your existing Jenkins projects can be fully recovered from this repository.

## How to use ##

The simplest way is to call the script without arguments. Everything else will be asked by the script.

```bash
./k8s-jcasc.sh
```

For less selection and more control you can also give some arguments and the command to the script:

```bash
./k8s-jcasc.sh <arguments> <command>
```

The order of the arguments and commands are irrelevant.

### k8s-jcasc.sh arguments ###

It is possible to use multiple arguments.
The following arguments are supported:

| Argument | Description | Example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-p=` or `--projectdir=` | Defines the project directory (or project name) of the Jenkins configuration. This directory is a subdirectory of the configured `PROJECTS_BASE_DIRECTORY` | `-p=myproject` or `--projectdir=myproject` |
| `-n=` or `--namespace=` | Defines the target namespace in Kubernetes. It is not used for encrypting or decrypting secrets. | `-n=jenkins-namespace` or `--namespace=jenkins-namespace` |
| `-d=` or `--deploymentname=` | Defines the deployment name, which is relevant only for `install` and `uninstall`. This can also be configured globally for all projects as `JENKINS_MASTER_DEPLOYMENT_NAME` in the config file. | `-d=jenkins-master` or `--deploymentname=jenkins-master` |

### k8s-jcasc.sh commands ###

Only one command can be used. Multiple commands are *NOT* supported.
The following commands are supported:

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `install` | Install Jenkins to a Kubernetes namespace. |
| `uninstall` | Uninstall the Jenkins instance from a Kubernetes namespace. |
| `encryptsecrets` | Encrypt the secrets (global secrets or project secrets, depending on configuration). |
| `decryptsecrets` | Decrypt the secrets (global secrets or project secrets, depending on configuration). |
| `applysecrets` | Apply the secrets to the Kubernetes namespace (global secrets or project secrets, depending on configuration). |
| `createproject` | Create a new Jenkins project for the configuration and deployment values from the templates. It uses a wizard to ask for relevant data. |

## IP Management ##

For greater installations and also after a recovery case, it is helpful to know which Jenkins instance is running behind which loadbalancer IP on which namespace.

To provide a simple solution, the system stores these information (namespace and IP) into a configuration file, which can also be backed up.
For every deployment of Jenkins, the system looks into this file and configures the loadbalancer with the IP. This also allows static DNS records.

If you create a new project via the wizard, the system also checks, if a IP address already exists to avoid IP conflicts.

# Helpful links #

- Kubernetes DNS-Based Service Discovery: https://github.com/kubernetes/dns/blob/master/docs/specification.md
- JCasC Examples: https://github.com/jenkinsci/configuration-as-code-plugin/tree/master/demos
